# Running Containers

- To start a new container, we use the docker run command followed by the image name. The basic syntax is as follows:

docker run [options] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

docker run -d -p 8080:80 nginx

Listing Containers

```console
docker container ls -a
```

Accessing Containers

```console
docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash
```

Stopping Containers

```console
docker container stop CONTAINER_ID
```

Removing Containers

```console
docker container rm CONTAINER_ID
```

To automatically remove containers when they exit, add the --rm flag when running a container:

```console
docker run --rm IMAGE
```

docker run [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]
1. OPTIONS: These are command-line flags that can be used to adjust the container’s settings, like memory constraints, ports, environment variables, etc.
2. IMAGE: The Docker image that the container will run. This can be an image from Docker Hub or your own image that is stored locally.
3. COMMAND: This is the command that will be executed inside the container when it starts. If not specified, the default entrypoint of the image will be used.
4. ARG...: These are optional arguments that can be passed to the command being executed.

## Commonly used Options

--name: Assign a name to the container, making it easier to identify and manage.
-p, --publish: Publish a container’s port(s) to the host. This is useful when you want to access the services running inside the container from outside the container.
-e, --env: Set environment variables inside the container. You can use this option multiple times to set multiple variables.
-d, --detach: Run the container in detached mode, running the container in the background and not showing logs in the console.
-v, --volume: Bind mount a volume from the host to the container. This is helpful in persisting data generated by the container or sharing files between host and container.

- Run an interactive session of an Ubuntu container:

```console
docker run -it --name=my-ubuntu ubuntu
```

- Run an Nginx web server and publish the port 80 on the host:

```console
docker run -d --name=my-nginx -p 80:80 nginx
```

- Run a MySQL container with custom environment variables for configuring the database:

```console
docker run -d --name=my-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret -e MYSQL_DATABASE=mydb -p 3306:3306 mysql
```

- Run a container with a bind-mounted volume:

```console
docker run -d --name=my-nginx -p 80:80 nginx
```
